EBDataViewer
==================================================================================

Copyright (c) July-2019, EBDataViewer - Erique Bomfim. All rights reserved.

An opensource javascript library to help you create business intelligence components
for web application building. The components interacts each other giving user a new
experience on analyzing data

## License

Feel free to use this plugin. Please just keep credits on code so that others come to know 
this work.

## A brief history


Ebdataviewer was conceived in 2018 to solve a customer problem when consuming an important daily activities report in PDF generated by a SQL procedure. The report was very comprehensive, built of many registries, about 300 rows per user, rendering a large amount of sheets. The problem becomes even worse when you try to extract a report from a hub office, having data of more than 10 users per report on average. Controlling daily activities from such a report proved to be beaver work and often unprofitable for sake of  data changes along the day.

The situation was presented to me by the administration body and, in a twinkling of an eye, I perceived that their problem had to do with business intelligence (BI). Initially, I created a prototype within a BI software which they had a license acquired a time ago by their BI department, but never used to improve their experience on consuming said report. In a few weeks, I got a solution able to process report data and offer a friendly interface - the customer got satisfied. However, now we’ve got a new challenge - the license per user was very expensive - about 1000 of them; further, it was a desktop solution, not compatible with the customer’s main system. Thus, we had to make it to work with their main system - a web-based system running on their intranet. Unfortunately, the BI software had no way to do it easily. Their solution for such a situation required a new web server, dedicated to their application in order to run on the web. Even more expensive than the first proposal. There was no way out at first glance. Otherwise, we have no guarantees if it would work as we need. 

Our team did some research for a solution. We found a couple of them but they usually require to be installed in a web server, also they can’t work with the existing system.

Then, I decided to face the challenge. I proposed to myself to write something to meet all those needs. The solution had to consume the data provided by the existing report; Afterwards, it had to load, extract and transform data; offering a friendly user interface and interacting with the existing web-system. I already figured out how an ETL worked, now I had to write it for web; I believed in my solid knowledge on Javascript, the DOM manipulation and some front-end concepts. 

After 6 months of intensive work, research and tries, I created the EBDataviewer - a javascript plugin able to handle JSON data, process them and provide an user-friendly interface that combines multiple filters dynamically - requiring a minimum computational resource of the browser.  

I’m very prideful today when I see it running on behalf of about 1000 users daily. Since its inaugural  flight in 2019, EBDataviewer changed their lives, increasing productivity and bringing satisfaction to their daily activities, contributing to the company's resolution to adopt a full digital culture. Most recently, the company executive body decided to expand it to other web systems.


## Documentation

Hence that I had no time enough to create a documentation, almost all code is commented in order to help others extends its features.


## Dependencies:

- jquery-2.1.3.min.js
- DataTables-1.10.18
- Apexcharts.js


## Installation

Follow the example application CARS to create yours.
In resume, you gonna need:

- index.html
- a JSON file with data you want deal with.
- app.js  :  the very instruction for library initialization

You need first define DIMENSIONS and CUBES as explained on app.js example


## For example:

https://tinyurl.com/ebdataviewer


## Support the project - DONATE

paypal: erique.bomfim@gmail.com



## You can talk to me

- erique.bomfim@gmail.com
- twitter: BomfimErique
- github: eriquebomfim
